linguistic
Linguistic Learner
Verbal, Read-Write
Linguistic learners understand content best through linguistic skills like reading, writing, listening, and speaking. As a result, this type of learner processes information through the use of language, giving them an excellent memory when it comes to readings and lectures. The process of this learner involves reading information, listening to lectures or audio recordings, and taking further notes on the subject. It may be best to talk about the subject with someone else to ensure a deep understanding of it.
Large focus on notes; Re-reading and re-writing information; Summarizing content (spoken or written); Listing keywords to remember; Use of acronyms;

naturalistic
Naturalistic Learner
Naturalist
Naturalistic learners understand content best by working in or with nature, or experiencing natural situations in the world around them. Many scientists learn this way because observations are at the heart of learning, whether that be relating ideas to concepts in nature, or enjoying rural settings to study and think. There is a large focus on pattern recognition and observation in order to understand content in a way that interests this kind of learner.
Organizing notes on patterns; Simulating real-life situations; Observing and recording data without direct interaction;
 
musical
Musical Learner
Rhythmic, Auditory, Aural
Musical learners understand content best through the inclusion of melodies and rhythms to focus. With this type of learner, music isn't a distraction, but actually aids in the learning process. This background noise could include humming, whistling, toe-tapping, or tapping a pencil on a desk as well. Evidently, these learners think chronologically, like the order of music. By using background noise to their advantage, there is an inherent ability to study nearly anywhere. These attributes result in several key traits.
Strong language skills; Difficulty deciphering graphs; Difficulty deciphering interpersonal cues; Enjoys participating in discussions; Uses mnemonic devices; Listens to music when studying;
 
physical
Physical Learner
Kinesthetic, Bodily, Tactile
Physical learners learn best by taking action and interacting directly with objects. This interaction helps them to learn through trial-and-error, as well as direct visualization. These learners usually enter into fields that require hands-on experience like arts, manufacturing, or other creative fields. Their bodies are directly involved in the learning process as they are able to manipulate what is being learned.
Conduct experiments; Make graphs or art pieces to depict information; Review notes while doing physical activities;
 
visual
Visual Learner
Spatial
Visual learners understand content best with the use of visuals aids to guide the learning process. Visual aids could include a large array of diagrams, pictures, graphs, maps, charts, timelines, and infographics. These learners tend to enter the technical or engineering field because of the needed visualization of abstract concepts and technology. These learners are usually specified as right-brained.
Use online resources like videos and pictures; Highlight notes with different colors; Create indented note outlines; Work through problems by drawing diagrams;
 
logical
Logical Learner
Mathematical
Lopgical learners understand content best by classifying and categorizing the information being learned. This allows them to understand relationships and patterns, or numbers and equations, best. These learners tend to drift toward math-based fields like engineering, science, or mathematics as they can decipher abstract visual information and remain strategy-focused. The classification comes in when organizing learned content into differing sections, or using their memory to keep concepts separated.
Divide content in notes; Extract statistics and facts from lessons; Play math and strategy games for mind stimulation; Create specific goals; Plan timeslines for projects;
 
interpersonal
Interpersonal Learner
Social
Interpersonal learners understand content best by relating information and talking through ideas with other people. This learning style could be demonstrated by sharing stories, working in teams, and comparing ideas with others. They are genuinely good at reading the emotions of others and therefore identifying core communication problems that are occuring in a team setting. Being around others helps to give them new perspective and understand their own perspective better.
Talks through problems with others; Teaches others what they've learned; Join volunteer groups; Interviews others for their perspective;
 
intrapersonal
Intrapersonal Learner
Solitary
Intrapersonal learners work best at understanding content when they are working alone. They are able to set individual goals and are internally motivated--demonstrating intrapersonal learners tend to be introverts (but this is not always the case). They enjoy fields without supervision as these learners can work by themselves and make their own decisions in the learning process, allowing them to stay in-tune with themselves and their capabilities.
Create a solitary study space; Keep a journal; Have established personal goals; Reflect on old and new material; Enjoy teaching themselves new information;
